# Don't Forget You Were Once a Child

I am not a beneficiary of exam-oriented education, and I rarely scored high marks from childhood to adulthood. Because I have always been quite resistant to doing questions and exams, although I tried hard to be a teacher and a good child in people's eyes, I failed in the end. Thinking back to the first grade of elementary school, the teacher asked us what our dreams were when we grew up. I have long forgotten what other students answered, but I only wanted to fly a kite. Nowadays, my son wants to be a train conductor when he takes the subway, a pilot when he takes a plane, and a delivery man when he sees a delivery man. If you ask him what dreams he has when he grows up, he doesn't have too many grand ideas. I think this is normal because the most important thing in childhood is to play. People are born first for happiness, and then for the meaning or mission of life.

Now my son is in the first grade. In the past six months, my biggest feeling is that the education method has not improved much, and it is still the same set of exam-oriented education. The main standard for teachers to evaluate children still falls almost entirely on good learning. I see many parents complain that there is too little homework, and some buy extracurricular exercise books for their children as soon as the first grade starts. I said in the parent group that I would not let my child do so much homework, and other parents said "Your child studies well, of course he doesn't need to do so much". Indeed, his grades are good, but I think this is not because he spends a lot of time doing homework, but depends on two aspects: first, his concentration is relatively good. He played a lot and exercised well since childhood, which instead allows him to calm down and study; second, I often guide him to explain what he has learned. I pretend that I don't understand, and he will tell me with great interest. Pretending to be stupid appropriately in front of children is actually very useful.

In addition, the school stipulates that school uniforms must be worn every day except Friday, and most children wear school uniforms on Friday. But I encourage my son to wear the clothes he likes. At first, he was unwilling to be different from his classmates. Later, through appropriate rewards, I let him slowly dare to express himself and not suppress his true personality.

Since kindergarten, his drawing ability has been very average. After entering elementary school, the teacher also said that he didn't draw well. But I always tell him that he draws very well because there is no standard answer to drawing. This reminds me of the picture of "a boa constrictor digesting an elephant" in "The Little Prince". In fact, adults often don't understand anything, but forget that they were originally children. This book has been reminding me: **Don't forget you were once a child**.
